# `minibudget diff`

`minibudget diff` is a report view for minibudget. It helps you see the differences
between two different `.budget` files, and displays a table of accounts with
the differences clearly marked by category.

This can be helpful for checking the difference between a planned budget and
real accounting reports generated by [`minibudget convert`](./convert.md). 
It can also be helpful for seeing trends in budgeted or real spending over time.

Currently the only rendering option is as a table, but we may support more
graphical formats and outputs in the future.

## Basic Usage

The `diff` command requires at least 2 `.budget` files to render a report.

`minibudget ./example_1.budget ./example_2.budget`

This will create a chart of accounts with the differences. Differences are
always rolling (i.e. as they relate to the previous budget in the list).

## Options

### Rendering

`--output {text | csv | html }`

The format of the output. Defaults to text.

When set to CSV or HTML output, the `width` option will be ignored.

In HTML the width is set to 100%.

CSV output is columnar to make it easier to read for other parts of toolchains,
or for making graphs in your preferred spreadsheet program.

`--width`

The width of the output report for text mode, in characters. Defaults to the 
full terminal width.

`--currency-format`

The currency format as a Python format string. For example, for USD:

`{neg}${amount}`

When combined with `--currency decimals` for -500 units this will output `-$5.00`.

`--currency-decimals`

This is the number of decimal points to render the currency with. For example
USD has 2 and 1000 units will be rendered as `10.00`, while NTD has 0 and
1000 units will be rendered as `1000`.

`--currency`

This is a shortcut for `--currency-format` and `--currency-decimals`. Defaults to USD.

Currently we support these [built-in currency formats](currency-formats.md)
